If you have watched the module introduction to JUnit 5,
you'll remember I showed you the minimal configuration
to run JUnit 5 tests with Gradle.
Starting with version 4.6,
Gradle provides native support for executing JUnit 5 tests.
You only have to declare the JUnit dependencies and,
in the test section, specify useJunitPlatform.
It can take options to filter tests by tags,
which we'll review later in this module, or by test engine.
If you want to filter tests by package, class,
or method, you'll have to use the filter option instead.
This way, with includeTest or excludeTest,
you can specify a test class and its corresponding method under any package.
Or with includeTestsMatching or excludeTestsMatching,
you can use wildcards, for example to exclude all tests from a package.
And within the test task,
you can provide configuration parameters for JUnit as systemProperties,
either one or many.
All right, let's review how to filter tests with Gradle.
I have opened the Gradle project that you can find in the
directory of the demos of this module.
At the end of the build.gradle file in the test task,
I'm going to add an option to execute only the test classes of
the package com.wiredbraincoffee.reward.tests.
You can import the changes if you want. And in the terminal,
I'll execute the command gradlew test.
Great.
Now, by default,
the test report is generated in the directory build/reports/tests/test.
There's an index.html file that you can open in a browser.
Here it is.
If you click Packages, you'll see the tests executed by package.
Of course, in this example,
there's only one package. Nineteen tests were executed,
one ignored.
And here, we can see the classes and, for each class, the tests that were executed.